Copilot/find instances of cite (#294)
symbiotic-engineering/MDOcean: pubs/renewable-energy-mdo/sections/formulation.tex

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\subsubsection{Objective Function}\label{remdo:sec:obj}

> For the single-objective formulation, the optimization minimizes the levelized cost of energy ($LCOE$), the metric most commonly used by WEC developers to evaluate market viability \citet{trueworthy_wave_2020} and computed by the economics module \citep{mccabe_development_2026}.

Author: ```suggestion
For the single-objective formulation, the optimization minimizes the levelized cost of energy ($LCOE$), the metric most commonly used by WEC developers to evaluate market viability \citep{trueworthy_wave_2020} and computed by the economics module \citep{mccabe_development_2026}.
```

\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    LCOE is adopted for its simplicity, although this choice brings three major limitations.
    First, because LCOE balances the device's lifetime cost with its lifetime energy production, it only measures economic viability if each Joule generated has equal value.

>     On real grids, the value of electricity varies temporally and spatially, especially with growing electrification \citep{akdemir_opportunities_2023,bhattacharya_timing_2021,pennock_temporal_2022}, so capturing nonuniform sources of WEC value such as consistency or complementarity would require modifications (e.g.\ \citep{mccabe_system_2023}) outside the scope of the present model.

Author: ```suggestion
    On real grids, the value of electricity varies temporally and spatially, especially with growing electrification \citep{akdemir_opportunities_2023,bhattacharya_timing_2021,pennock_temporal_2022},
    so capturing nonuniform sources of WEC value such as consistency or complementarity would require modifications (e.g.\ those proposed by \citet{mccabe_system_2023}) outside the scope of the present model.
```

    Third, LCOE has limited relevance for the off-grid and micro-grid use cases such as offshore aquaculture, autonomous underwater vehicle charging, ocean data collection, that have grown popular since the 2019 launch of the DOE's ``Powering the Blue Economy'' initiative \citep{livecchi_powering_2019}.
    For a fixed power requirement, only cost reduction (not power increase) drives value, and some applications such as ocean observation are not financed at all, making the fixed charge rate obsolete \citep{jenne_powering_2021}.
    
    In the multi-objective formulation, instead of $LCOE$, the two objectives are average electrical power $P_{\text{avg,elec}}$ and design-dependent capital cost $C_{\text{design}}$.
    This directly addresses the second and third LCOE limitations: the fixed charge rate and inaccurately-scaled cost components can no longer influence the optimum, and the minimum-capital design for a given power requirement is easily identified.
\else

>     LCOE is adopted for its simplicity, though it carries three limitations: it values every Joule equally, ignoring the temporal and spatial variation of electricity value on real grids \citep{akdemir_opportunities_2023,mccabe_system_2023}; it has high early-stage uncertainty, since only structural and PTO costs are modeled as design-dependent \citep{mccabe_development_2026}; and it is less relevant for the off-grid \emph{Powering the Blue Economy} applications \citet{livecchi_powering_2019,jenne_powering_2021} where power requirements are fixed or projects are unfinanced.

Author: ```suggestion
    LCOE is adopted for its simplicity, though it carries three limitations: it values every Joule equally, ignoring the temporal and spatial variation of electricity value on real grids \citep{akdemir_opportunities_2023,mccabe_system_2023}; it has high early-stage uncertainty, since only structural and PTO costs are modeled as design-dependent \citep{mccabe_development_2026}; and it is less relevant for the off-grid \emph{Powering the Blue Economy} applications \citep{livecchi_powering_2019,jenne_powering_2021} where power requirements are fixed or projects are unfinanced.
```

    
    Continuing the draft example, two priority 1 requirements, \reqref{float_spar_draft} and \reqref{spar_seafloor_overflow}, contain $T_{f,2}$, while $T_s$ appears in \reqref{float_spar_draft} and \reqref{float_seafloor_overflow}.
    Assuming the other variables involved (e.g.\ $T_{f,1}$, $h$) are parameters or design variables, the dimensional encoding makes all three requirements achievable via linear constraint, while the nondimensional encoding makes \reqref{float_spar_draft} a bound (preferable) but forces \reqref{spar_seafloor_overflow} into a nonlinear constraint (undesired).

>     Early results with nondimensional encodings \citet{mccabe_multidisciplinary_2022} showed the optimizer frequently violating nonlinear constraints and causing simulation failure, so the dimensional encoding is selected.

Author: ```suggestion
    Early results with nondimensional encodings \citep{mccabe_multidisciplinary_2022} showed the optimizer frequently violating nonlinear constraints and causing simulation failure, so the dimensional encoding is selected.
```

\else
    For example, the float and spar drafts may be encoded directly as dimensions or nondimensionally as a dimension and a ratio.
    An encoding may be chosen to control the objective directly, induce convexity, or maintain feasibility; the last is pursued here, since each requirement can be enforced, in increasing order of optimizer difficulty, via parameters, bounds, linear constraints, or nonlinear constraints, and it is desirable to keep all five priority 1 requirements free of nonlinear constraints so they hold even at intermediate points.

>     Applied to the draft example, the dimensional encoding renders the relevant priority 1 requirements achievable by linear constraint whereas the nondimensional encoding forces a nonlinear constraint; early results with nondimensional encodings \citet{mccabe_multidisciplinary_2022} showed frequent constraint violation and simulation failure, motivating the dimensional choice.

Author: ```suggestion
    Applied to the draft example, the dimensional encoding renders the relevant priority 1 requirements achievable by linear constraint whereas the nondimensional encoding forces a nonlinear constraint; early results with nondimensional encodings \citep{mccabe_multidisciplinary_2022} showed frequent constraint violation and simulation failure, motivating the dimensional choice.
```

\end{center}
\end{table}

The parameters in \Cref{remdo:tab:parameters} assume operation in the seas of Humboldt Bay, CA, A-36 structural steel, and nominal RM3 values for the design factor of safety, fixed charge rate, number of devices, and float submergence ratio \citep{RM3}.
\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    Three parameters of note are the geometric ratios $D_d/D_s$, $T_s/D_s$, and $h_d/D_s$, which hold the spar proportions constant to maintain a sufficiently large damping ratio (\reqref{spar_damping_ratio}).

>     Together with \reqref{spar_similarity}, which enforces geometric similarity on the damping plate, this fixes the spar dynamics to those of the nominal RM3, preserving the modeling assumptions of \citep{mccabe_development_2026}.

Author: ```suggestion
    Together with \reqref{spar_similarity}, which enforces geometric similarity on the damping plate, this fixes the spar dynamics to those of the nominal RM3, preserving the modeling assumptions of \citet{mccabe_development_2026}.
```

    In effect, the spar dimensional design space is restricted to comply with the model assumptions.
    This prevents determining the true optimal spar dimensions under multibody dynamics but suffices for an initial study emphasizing float design.
\else

>     Three parameters of note, the geometric ratios $D_d/D_s$, $T_s/D_s$, and $h_d/D_s$, hold the spar proportions constant to maintain the damping ratio (\reqref{spar_damping_ratio}) and, with \reqref{spar_similarity}, fix the spar dynamics to those of the nominal RM3, preserving the modeling assumptions of \citep{mccabe_development_2026}.

Author: ```suggestion
    Three parameters of note, the geometric ratios $D_d/D_s$, $T_s/D_s$, and $h_d/D_s$, hold the spar proportions constant to maintain the damping ratio (\reqref{spar_damping_ratio}) and, with \reqref{spar_similarity}, fix the spar dynamics to those of the nominal RM3, preserving the modeling assumptions of \citet{mccabe_development_2026}.
```

\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    Notably, while the design variables include PTO sizing variables, PTO characteristics such as the generator and drivetrain impedances are kept as parameters.

>     Rather than perform PTO co-design, whose value a number of recent papers (e.g.\ \citet{coe_useful_2023,gaebele_incorporating_2023} and those discussed in \Cref{remdo:sec:lit}) have already proven, this study keeps the PTO design fixed at representative values.

Author: ```suggestion
    Rather than perform PTO co-design, which \citet{coe_useful_2023,gaebele_incorporating_2023} and studies discussed in \Cref{remdo:sec:lit}) have already proven is valuable, this study keeps the PTO design fixed at representative values.
```
